# About PsychNotebook

PsychNotebook is a web-based interactive environment for software, code,
and data to support the planning and analysis of studies in the field of
psychology and related disciplines. It is provided by the Leibniz
Institute for Psychology (ZPID) as a free-to-use, non-commercial public
service. 

PsychNotebook offers installation-free access to R Studio and
JupyterLabs with the option to be extended to other packages. By
creating an account, users can access the software, create and save
their projects to continue working on them at a later time. 

Our goal is to foster coding among psychologists, provide a platform for
(collaborative) data analyses, and to make projects reproducible, such
that 1) it should be possible to execute code in a project even after
years have passed and that 2) project specifications (e.g., version of
RStudio and each installed package) are saved in a machine- and
human-readable file. 

The scope of PsychNotebook includes the technical operation and
administration of the server infrastructure. In the future, educational
content (tutorials and code for statistical analyses) will be added to
PsychNotebook (by the users and the PsychNotebook team) to form a
knowledge base. 

# Registration

To access any software provided in PsychNotebook and to save projects or
any outcome, each user must open an account. For registration, the name
and a valid email address or the ORCID ID of the user must be provided.
With registration, a contract for the use of PsychNotebook is concluded
according to the terms and conditions stipulated in these Terms of Use.
By opening an account, users must agree to these terms and conditions
and accept our policy regarding [data privacy](/privacy). 

# Account Terms / Code of Conduct

PsychNotebook is a platform for analysing psychological research data
for scientific and for educational purposes. PsychNotebook may only be
used for these purposes. The resources of PsychNotebook (e.g., memory,
storage, CPU) are shared among concurrent users. ZPID reserves the right
to temporarily disable your account if your usage significantly exceeds
the average usage of other users. 

Users are personally responsible for observing legislation and third
party rights for any data they upload to or obtain through
PsychNotebook. They are responsible for any activity that occurs under
their account. They are liable for violations of applicable law,
including, but not limited to, copyright, privacy, data protection and
intellectual property rights. ZPID assumes no liability or
responsibility for the contents of data generated or handled by the
users. If ZPID has reason to believe that any of the contents of a
project, private or public, are illegal or violates these terms and
conditions, ZPID has the right to access, examine, and remove them. 

ZPID reserves the right to delete accounts that have not been used for a
period of more than 12 months after 30 days\' notice.  

Restrictions and Changes to the Services 

ZPID will make reasonable efforts to keep PsychNotebook operational.
However, due to technical difficulties, maintenance, testing or updates,
there may occasionally be temporary disruptions of the service.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, ZPID can decide ceasing to provide
PsychNotebook at any time. Users may understand and agree that ZPID is
under no obligation to provide, upgrade or update PsychNotebook, or to
provide certain content through PsychNotebook.   

# Miscellaneous 

## Unenforceable Clauses 

If any clause of these Terms of Use is found to be invalid or
unenforceable, the remaining provisions will remain effective and such
term shall be replaced with a term consistent with the purpose and
intent of these Terms of Use. 

## Governing Law and Jurisdiction 

This Agreement is governed by German law. The courts in the Federal
Republic of Germany, in particular the courts at the registered office
of ZPID in Trier, shall have jurisdiction for all disputes arising from
or in connection with this contract.

## Entire Agreement 

You agree that these Terms of Use and the information which is expressly
incorporated into them by reference (including reference to information
contained in an URL) are the complete Agreement for the legal
relationship between you and ZPID and supersede all prior or
contemporaneous Agreements or representations, written or oral,
regarding this relationship. 

## Changes to the Agreement 

These Terms of Use may not be modified except in a written contract or
statement.

ZPID reserves the right to modify these Terms of Use, in particular in
the event of a changed legal situation, i.e. a changed law or a changed
jurisdiction. In such a case, the consent to the modified Terms of Use
is given by the fact that the use of the aforementioned services is
continued. If you do not agree to the modified Terms of Use, you must
discontinue use and deactivate or delete your account.
